---
title: "On Cafés"
date: 2023-06-03
headerImage: false
tag:
    - thoughts
category: thoughts
author: jackson
description: Might as well write about it.
---

# What Makes a Good Cafe?

There are likely far more experienced café goers/connoisseurs/critics than me but I like to think I've spent too much time at cafés. This is in part a result of:

1. never getting into the bar/drinking scene in college/post-college and
2. an addition to caffeine.

Wherever I've lived, I've scoped out every cafe within a 5mi radius. In the US context, I'm more often disappointed than surprised with what I find.

## Why are US cafes Bad?

I'm not entirely certain why a lot of US café's (or restaurants generally) are so poorly cared for but some factors in my guess are:

-   Cost of living where café's are popular
-   Cost of rent where cafes are popular
-   Lack of worker protections in the service industry
-   Low net income from café's vs. occupancy saturation
-   Higher than typical turnaround vs. sit-down restaurants
-   Coffee beans are more expensive in the US than other countries (this seems especially odd considering our proximity to South America)?

There are probably quite a few more - but those immediately came to mind. Each one of these likely contribute stressors that trickle down from the distributor to store owner and eventually to workers that pour and maintain the shop. I also imagine some of this is a result of the historical culture of the US service industry (think tipping), the way monopolies (think Starbucks), and the general stratification of class is justified here.

## But besides that...

I do constancy think of these factors in my periphery whenever I make judgments (as I'm about to do) on what are "aesthetic" decisions that contribute to that immediate feeling of stepping inside a restaurant and feeling comfortable. It's this comfort that allows you to have a good conversation with a friend, do a little laptop work, read, or even evesdrop on a nearby conversation (everyone does!). There are broadly three categories that give rise to this atmosphere: sound, layout, and visual consistency.
